>> Mike North: This is a pretty
silly kind of authentication
that we're using right now.
There is basically like you get to
select any user and you have this
local user ID state and nothing is
done with it from that point on.
So we're gonna create some
state that can be shared
horizontally across different
concerns in our app.
And we're going to do this by way
of something called a service.
You can think of a service as an object or
a class
where an instance of that class can
connect various unrelated things together.
For example, the currently logged in user.
We probably gonna have to use that
here on the side bar in order to
display who's logged in.
We probably wanna use it to make sure
that only logged in users can get to
this UI that we're looking at and
logged out users should be kinda
kicked out to the log in page.
If we were making authenticated API calls,
which we are not, you'd probably have some
tokens some access token
that's authentication related.
So the alternative like to
using a service would be,
it would involve a lot of threading things
through and passing a lot of orgs around
to all of these different concerns
that need to know about it.
And it would greatly
complicate our component tree.
A service allows us to avoid that and
if you've worked with other frameworks
this is analogous to the react context
API and to angular services, right?
It's a way of sharing things
that does not involve passing it
all the way through
the component tree explicitly.
So we're going to begin by using
ember CLI to create a service.
ember generate service, and
we're gonna call it auth.
>> Mike North: And as you probably expect
by now, we got two files outta this.
The service itself and
a passing unit test.
So let's look at the service.
It's an ESX class, these are very simple.
All it does is it entrust that it is
a singleton scoped to the application.
That doesn't- that means that like
in your acceptance testing things,
you still will tear that
singleton down and recreate it.
But while your app is running,
you can be assured that this thing
will have very long life cycle, right.
And you can store data here, and even as
the user navigates to different routes,
and components are created and destroyed,
this thing will live a long time.
But there's not much to it, you can kinda
think of it as a very generic object.
So, what we want on this is to have
a currentUserID and
we can also have this
service handle the login and
logout related transitions, right?
The navigation things that happen and
what that lets us do is
kind of encapsulate all of the author
related stuff into this one object, right?
So it knows what it means to login and
what it means to log out, what it means to
check whether users authenticated or not.
And everyone else gets the benefit
of operating on a central
definition of all those things.
So let's get started.
So we want a currentUserID and
I want this to survive a reload.
So I'm gonna use local storage for this.
I'm gonna have a property that is
based on the local storage value.
And just for consistency's sake,
I'm gonna define a key up here.
>> Mike North: Just so that when we
do reads and writes to local storage,
I cannot make a typo and
read from one key and write to another.
So get currentUserID and we're gonna have.
Window.localStorage.getItem(AUTH_KEY),
>> Mike North: And we have to return it.
We can have a function here
called LoginwithUserId,
which our log in form will
take advantage of user ID and
what it's gonna do is window,
local storage,
set item,
>> Mike North: userId.
So effectively, like call in login with
userId, it will save it in local storage,
getting the current userId will read
it from local storage, seems good.
In addition to writing this thing
to local storage we want to
trigger a change in URL, right.
Logging in involves taking you
into the log in experience and
that means using link to as far as
we know at this point, but there's
another way we can programmatically do the
same thing that clicking on a link does.
And that is through using the router
which also happens to be a service.
So we get to consume a service now and
here's how that works.
We're gonna import
a function called inject or
we're gonna within this
file alias it at service.
>> Mike North: So we have imported
this thing, if we can call service and
here's how we get access to the router.
>> Mike North: That's it, actually I'm
gonna keep, wow we'll do that in a second.
So we have access to the router and
we can just do this.router and
we have a hold of that.
For autocomplete goodness,
I'm gonna import.
Yeah, that'll do.
Import the router symbol.
Right, this is from your router JS file
and I'm just gonna use that in a comment.
>> Mike North: Used as type here.
My mistake, looks like I have
to import the base class.
>> Mike North: Which makes sense
because there are no types for
this code that we're writing here.
So we've got router we're just
using it in the JS dot thing,
JS.comment, but that let's us down
here do this router transition two
and we can name the route we
wish to send the user to.
So when they log in,
they should be sent to teams.
>> Mike North: So they log in,
all we need is just pass the userId,
it'll get saved and then the user is sent
off to the authenticated experience.
That should be it.
Now let's go hook it up to our login form.
So go to login form JS, and
instead of calling this
login with userId, you can actually
get rid of that down here.
Well we need to inject the service, but
down here's where we'll use that function,
log in with userId that we just made.
So we'll import that,
inject, inject as service,
>> Mike North: From ember service and
then up here will say service auth, right,
it is just the name of the service itself.
We can use our JS dot thing again.
>> Mike North: I’m just
trying to use autocomplete
here to grab that import,
type authservice,
so now we'll get auto complete for
our local code, and
this .auth.login with userId.
Let's test it out.
>> Mike North: So I'm just gonna check my
depth tools to make sure I have no local
stored currently I don’t know if that
happened just now or in testing earlier.
But it can reload and
we see there’s no local storage here,
nothing so I’ll select a user,
it says logging in with userId of two,
sign in.
This is a debugger that we left here.
We should probably remove that.
>> Mike North: Let's look
at local storage again.
>> Mike North: There it is, so
I've successfully saved the user ID and
I did successfully end up on this URL.
This is really nice cuz imagine if there
were a couple different ways to login like
maybe when a new user is registered and
you get their information back.
You can automatically treat
them login right after sign up.
This gives you one central
place where anyone can
take advantage of this stuff and
to demonstrate that.
Well we won't worry about that yet.
But I could show the userId
in a component as well.
We will certainly get there.
It's just not a value.
A lot of value in doing
that at this moment.
So let's check our tests.
>> Mike North: Looks like.
>> Mike North: Looks like
everything is okay at this point.
So we are good to go.
So just a recap,
we created a service called auth,
it uses another service called router.
The router's job is to handle transitions
to different URLs sort of like
programmatic clicking on links.
The auth service holds
the currently login users ID.
It handles all the particulars of dealing
with local storage, no other part
of the app needs to know that local
storage is what we happened to be using.
So it's a nice encapsulation tool,
and a nice way of sharing things
across many unrelated concerns otherwise
unrelated concerns in your app.
All you need to remember
is inject it like that.
So import this and use that, and
this is just the name of the service,
the file name auth.js.
So I will make a commit,
we have just completed step ten.